This directory contains the source code for the NTG software package.

Version:	2.2.3
Release Date:	27 June 2022
Contact:	murray@cds.caltech.edu

INSTALLATION
------------
In order to install NTG, you will need to install two other software
packages that are licensed separately: NPSOL and PGS.

NPSOL is a numerical optimization library that uses sequential
quadratic programming to solve nonlinear optimization problems.  It is
not in the public domain, but licenses are available at low cost for
university and government usage.  More information on NPSOL is
available at

    http://www.sbsi-sol-optimize.com/asp/sol_product_npsol.htm

PGS is the Practical Guide to Splines companion software.  It is in the
public domain and is included in the NTG distribution in the pgs/
subdirectory.  By default, the PGS source code will be installed from the
PGS web site using wget.  If this doesn't work, you can grab the source code
from one of the following web sites:

  http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~deboor/pgs/
  http://www.netlib.org/pppack/ (may require some renaming of files)

This version of NTG has been tested under linux (RH 7.2) and should
work in most vanilla unix environments.

To install NTG:
  1. Unpack ntg.tar into the directory of your choice
  2. Edit Makefile and make sure everything is pointed where you want
  3. Type 'make" to make all NTG libraries and programs
  4. If everything works, type 'make install' to install the library
     and programs

Example programs are available in the subdirectory 'examples/'.  These
programs should compile correctly after you have installed the software.
You will need to edit the makefile to point to the properly directories for
the include files and libraries.  You will also need to have the PGS and
NPSOL package installed on your system.  See pgs/README for directions on
installing the version of PGS distributed with NTG.

NOTE FOR CALTECH CDS USERS: Caltech has a site license for NPSOL.  You can
get a copy of the source code from cds:~murray/src/npsol/.

NOTE FOR OS X USERS (2 Jan 2013): XCode does not come with a FORTRAN
compiler, so you will need to install gfortran and use a compatible
version of gcc (may different than the system default).  I have
successfully gfortran 11.0.0 from the MacPorts distribution along with
the XCode gcc compiler (Apple clang version 13.1.6) to get everything
to compile.  The following incantation in the main directory generates
everytihng correctly:

  make F77=gfortran CFLAGS=-g FFLAGS="-g -fdefault-real-8 -fdefault-double-8"

The flags setting the size of the real and double types are (apparently)
required because of the use of doubles in the NTG course code for matrices
that are treated as REAL in PGS.

--
RMM, 3 Feb 2002
RMM, 2 Jan 2013
RMM, 27 Jun 2022 (updated for MacOS 12)
